Residential rental agreement no more than 5 years

Residential Tenancies Act 1997 Section 26(1)Residential Tenancies Regulations 2021 Regulation 10(1)



This is your residential rental agreement. It is a binding contract under the Residential Tenancies Act 1997 (the Act).

Parts A, B, C and E are the terms of your agreement. Part D is a summary of your rights and obligations.

Do not sign this agreement if there is anything in it that you do not understand. 

Please refer to Renters Guide for details about your rights and responsibility. 

For further information, visit the renting section of the Consumer Affairs Victoria (CAV) website at www.consumer.vic.gov.au/renting or call 1300 558 181.

Part A – Basic terms

This agreement is between the residential rental provider (rental provider) and the renter(s) listed on this form. 



1	Date of agreement

This is the date the agreement is signed. 



 

If the agreement is signed by the parties on different days, the date of the agreement is the date the last person signs the agreement. 





2	Premises let by the rental provider 

Address of premises



Postcode







3	Rental provider details

Full name(s) or



Company name





	ACN (if applicable) 



	(Please fill out details below where no agent is acting for the rental provider)

Address 



Postcode





 Phone number 









Email address







	Rental provider’s agent’s details (if applicable)

Full name





Address



Postcode





Phone number





ACN (if applicable)





Email address





Note: The rental provider must notify the renter within 7 days if any of this information changes.





4	Renter details

	Each renter that is a party to the agreement must provide their details here.

Full name of renter 1





Current address



Postcode





Phone number



 



Email address







Full name of renter 2





Current address



Postcode





Phone number







Email address







Full name of renter 3





Current address



Postcode





Phone number





\

Email address





Full name of renter 4





Current address



Postcode





Phone number







Email address







Note: If there are more than four renters, include details on an extra page.





5	Length of the agreement

 Fixed term agreement

Start date 



(this is the date the agreement starts and you may move in)



z



End date









 Periodic agreement (monthly)

Start date



Note: A periodic (e.g. month by month) rental agreement will be formed at the end of the fixed term agreement if the renter and rental provider do not sign a new fixed term agreement and the renter stays in the property.







6	Rent

Rent amount ($)







(payable in advance)







To be paid per

 week

 fortnight

 calendar month 







 Day rent is to be paid	(e.g. each Thursday or the 11th of each month)



Date first rent payment due























7	Bond

The renter has been asked to pay the bond specified below.

The maximum bond is 1 months’ rent (unless the rent is more than $900 per week). In some cases, the rental provider may ask the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) to increase this limit.

The rental provider or their agent must lodge the bond with the Residential Tenancies Bond Authority (RTBA) within 10 business days after receiving payment. The RTBA will send the renter a receipt for the bond.

If the renter does not receive a receipt within 15 business days of paying the bond, they can email the RTBA at rtba@dgs.vic.gov.au, or call the RTBA at 1300 13 71 64.



Bond amount ($)





Date bond payment due





Part B – Standard terms



8	Rental provider’s preferred method of rent payment

The rental provider must permit a fee-free method (other than the renter’s own bank fees) payment and must allow the renter to use Centrepay or another form of electronic funds transfer.

The renter is entitled to receive a receipt from the rental provider confirming payment of rent.

(Rental provider to tick available methods of rent payment)

 direct debit	

 bank deposit	

 cash

 cheque or money order

     BPAY 

 other electronic form of payment, including Centrepay







 

Payment details (if applicable)











9	Service of notices and other documents by electronic methods

Electronic service of documents must be in accordance with the requirements of the Electronic Transactions (Victoria) Act 2000.

Just because someone responds to an email or other electronic communications, does not mean they have consented to the service of notices and other documents by electronic methods.

The renter and rental provider must notify the other party in writing if they no longer wish to receive notices or other documents by electronic methods.

The renter and the rental provider must immediately notify the other party in writing if their contact details change.



	9.1	Does the rental provider agree to the service of notices and other documents by electronic methods, such as email?

The rental provider must complete this section before giving the agreement to the renter.

 	(Rental provider to tick as appropriate)







Yes - insert email address, mobile phone number or other electronic contact details









No





	9.2	Does the renter agree to the service of notices and other documents by electronic methods, such as email?

 	(Renter to tick as appropriate)

Renter 1



Yes - insert email address, mobile phone number or other electronic contact details







No





Renter 2



Yes - insert email address, mobile phone number or other electronic contact details







No





Renter 3



Yes - insert email address, mobile phone number or other electronic contact details







No





Renter 4



Yes - insert email address, mobile phone number or other electronic contact details







No



Note: If there are more than four renters, include details on an extra page.

	

10	Urgent repairs

The rental provider must ensure that the rental property is provided and maintained in good repair. 

If there is a need for an urgent repair, the renter should notify the rental provider in writing. 

For further information on seeking repairs, see Part D below.



Details of person the renter should contact for an urgent repair (rental provider to insert details).

Emergency contact name





Emergency phone number





Emergency email address







11	Professional cleaning

The rental provider must not require the renter to arrange professional cleaning or cleaning to a professional standard at the end of the tenancy, unless:

Professional cleaning or cleaning to a professional standard was carried out to the rented premises immediately before the start of the tenancy and the renter was advised that professional cleaning or cleaning to a professional standard had been carried out to those premises immediately before the start of the tenancy; or

Professional cleaning or cleaning to a professional standard is required to restore the rented premises to the same condition they were in immediately before the start of the tenancy, having regard to the condition report and taking into account fair wear and tear.

The renter must have all or part of the rented premises professionally cleaned or pay the cost of having all or part of the rented premises professionally cleaned, if professional cleaning becomes required to restore the premises to the condition they were in immediately before the start of the tenancy, having regard to the condition report and taking into account fair wear and tear.





12	Owners corporation (formerly body corporate)

Do owners corporation rules apply to the premises? (Rental provider to tick as appropriate)

 No

 Yes

If yes, the rental provider must attach a copy of the rules to this agreement.





13	Condition report

The renter must be given two copies of the condition report (or one emailed copy) on or before the date the renter moves into the rented premises. 

(Rental provider to tick as appropriate)



	 The condition report has been provided



 The condition report will be provided to the renter on or before the date the agreement starts 











Part C – Safety-related activities





Electrical safety activities

The rental provider must ensure an electrical safety check is conducted every two years by a licensed or registered electrician of all electrical installations, appliances and fittings provided by a rental provider in the rented premises, and must provide the renter with the date of the most recent safety check, in writing, on request of the renter.

If an electrical safety check of the rented premises has not been conducted within the last two years at the time the renter occupies the premises, the rental provider must arrange an electrical safety check as soon as practicable.







15	Gas safety activities

This safety-related activity only applies if the rented premises contains any appliances, fixtures or fittings which use or supply gas.

The rental provider must ensure a gas safety check is conducted every two years by a licensed or registered gasfitter of all gas installations and fittings in the rented premises and must provide the renter with the date of the most recent safety check, in writing, on request of the renter.

If a gas safety check has not been conducted within the last two years at the time the renter occupies the premises, the rental provider must arrange a gas safety check as soon as practicable.

16	[Clause revoked by law] 







17	Swimming pool barrier safety activities

These safety-related activities only apply if the rented premises contains a swimming pool.

The rental provider must ensure that the pool barrier is maintained in good repair.

The renter must give written notice to the rental provider as soon as practicable after becoming aware that the swimming pool barrier is not in working order. 

The rental provider must arrange for a swimming pool barrier to be immediately repaired or replaced as an urgent repair if they are notified by the renter that it is not in working order.

The rental provider must provide the renter with a copy of the most recent certificate of swimming pool barrier compliance issued under the Building Act 1993 on the request of the renter.





18	Relocatable swimming pool safety activities

These safety-related activities only apply if a relocatable swimming pool is erected, or is intended to be erected, at the rented premises.  

The renter must not put up a relocatable swimming pool without giving written notice to the rental provider before erecting the pool. 

The renter must obtain any necessary approvals before erecting a relocatable swimming pool.

Note: Regulations made under Building Act 1993 apply to any person erecting a relocatable swimming pool.   

This safety-related activity only applies to swimming pools or spas that can hold water deeper than 300 mm. 







19	Bushfire prone area activities

This safety-related activity only applies if the rented premises is in a bushfire prone area and is required to have a water tank for bushfire safety.

If the rented premises is in a designated bushfire-prone area under section 192A of the Building Act 1993 and a water tank is required for firefighting purposes, the rental provider must ensure the water tank and any connected infrastructure is maintained in good repair as required.

The water tank must be full and clean at the commencement of the agreement.  





Part D – Rights and obligations

This is a summary of selected rights and obligations of renters and rental providers under the Residential Tenancies Act 1997 (the Act). Any reference to VCAT refers to the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal.

For more information, visit www.consumer.vic.gov.au/renting. 







Use of the premises

The renter:

is entitled to quiet enjoyment of the premises. The rental provider may only enter the premises in accordance with the Act.

must not use the premises for illegal purposes. 

must not cause a nuisance or interfere with the reasonable peace, comfort or privacy of neighbours. 

must avoid damaging the premises and common areas. Common areas include hallways, driveways, gardens and stairwells. Where damage occurs, the renter must notify the rental provider in writing. 

must keep the premises reasonably clean. 

Condition of the premises

The rental provider:

must ensure that the premises comply with the rental minimum standards, and is vacant and reasonably clean when the renter moves in. 

must maintain the premises in good repair and in a fit condition for occupation. 

agrees to do all the safety-related maintenance and repair activities set out in Part C of the agreement.

The renter: 

must follow all safety-related activities set out in Part C of the agreement and not remove, deactivate or interfere with safety devices on the premises. 

Modifications 

The renter: 

may make some modifications without seeking consent. These modifications are listed on the Consumer Affairs website. 

must seek the rental provider’s consent before installing any other fixtures or additions. 

may apply to VCAT if they believe that the rental provider has unreasonably refused consent for a modification mentioned in the Act.

at the end of the agreement, must restore the premises to the condition it was in before they moved in (excluding fair wear and tear). This includes removing all modifications, unless the parties agree they do not need to be removed.

The rental provider:

must not unreasonably refuse consent for certain modifications. 

A list of the modifications that the rental provider cannot unreasonably refuse consent for is available on the Consumer Affairs Victoria website at www.consumer.vic.gov.au/renting.



Locks 

The rental provider must ensure the premises:

has locks to secure all windows capable of having a lock, and

has deadlocks (a deadlock is a deadlatch with at least one cylinder) for external doors that are able to be secured with a functioning deadlock, and

meets the rental minimum standards for locks and window locks.

External doors which are not able to be secured with a functioning deadlock must at least be fitted with a locking device that:

is operated by a key from the outside; and

may be unlocked from the inside with or without a key. 

The renter must obtain consent from the rental provider to change a lock in the master key system. 

The rental provider must not unreasonably refuse consent for a renter seeking to change a lock in the master key system.

The rental provider must not give a key to a person excluded from the premises under a:

family violence intervention order; or

family violence safety notice; or

recognised non-local DVO; or

personal safety intervention order.

Repairs

Only a suitably qualified person must do repairs – both urgent and non-urgent.

Urgent repairs

Section 3(1) of the Act defines urgent repairs. Refer to the Consumer Affairs Victoria website for the full list of urgent repairs and for more information, visit www.consumer.vic.gov.au/urgentrepairs. 

Urgent repairs include failure or breakdown of any essential service or appliance provided for hot water, cooking, heating or laundering supplied by the rental provider. 

The rental provider must carry out urgent repairs after being notified.

A renter may arrange for urgent repairs to be done if they have taken reasonable steps to arrange for the rental provider to immediately do the repairs and the rental provider has not carried out the repairs.

If the renter has arranged for urgent repairs, the renter may be reimbursed directly by the rental provider for the reasonable cost of repairs up to $2,500.

The renter may apply to VCAT for an order requiring the rental provider to carry out urgent repairs if: 

the renter cannot meet the cost of the repairs; or 

the cost of repairs is more than $2,500; or

the rental provider refuses to pay the cost of repairs if it is carried out by the renter.

Non-urgent repairs

The renter must notify the rental provider, in writing, as soon as practicable of: 

damage to the premises.

breakdown of facilities, fixtures, furniture or equipment supplied by the rental provider.

The rental provider must carry out non-urgent repairs in reasonable time.  

The renter can apply to VCAT for an order requiring the rental provider to do the repairs if the rental provider has not carried out the repairs within 14 days of receiving notice of the need for repair.

Assignment or sub-letting

The renter:

must not assign (transfer to another person) or sub-let the whole or any part of the premises without the written consent of the rental provider.

The rental provider may give the renter notice to vacate if the renter assigns or sublets the premises without consent.

The rental provider:

cannot unreasonably withhold consent to assign or sub-let the premises. 

must not demand or receive a fee or payment for consent, other than reasonable expenses incurred by the assignment. 

Rent

The rental provider must give the renter at least 90 days’ written notice of a proposed rent increase. 

Rent cannot be increased more than once every 12 months. 

If the rental provider or agent does not provide a receipt for rent, the renter may request a receipt. 

The rental provider must not increase the rent under a fixed term agreement unless the agreement provides for an increase.

Access and entry

The rental provider may enter the premises: 

at any time, if the renter has agreed within the last 7 days.

to do an inspection but not more than once every 6 months. 

to comply with the rental provider’s duties under the Act.

to show the premises or conduct an open inspection to sell, rent or value the premises.

to take images or video for advertising a property that is for sale or rent.

if they believe the renter has failed to follow their duties under the Act.

to do a pre-termination inspection where the renter has applied to have the agreement terminated because of family violence or personal violence. 

The renter must allow entry to the premises where the rental provider has followed proper procedure.

The renter is entitled to a set amount of compensation for each sales inspection.

Pets 

The renter must seek consent from the rental provider before keeping a pet on the premises.

The rental provider must not unreasonably refuse a request to keep a pet.

Smoke Alarms

The rental provider must ensure that any smoke alarm installed in the rented premises is:

correctly installed and in working condition; and

fitted with batteries or replacement batteries; and

tested at least once every 12 months in accordance with any instructions by the manufacturer of the smoke alarm. 

If a smoke alarm installed in the rented premises does not meet the requirements set out above, the renter may issue a request to the rental provider for urgent repairs to the smoke alarm in accordance with section 72AA of the Act.

On receiving notice from the renter under the clause above, the rental provider or the provider’s agent must immediately arrange for the repairs to be carried out.

Any testing, repair or replacement of a smoke alarm that is powered by a mains electricity supply must be undertaken by a suitably qualified person.

Part E – Additional terms





21	Further details (if any)

List any additional terms to this agreement. The terms listed must not exclude, restrict or modify any of the rights and duties included in the Act.

Additional terms must also comply with the Australian Consumer Law (Victoria). For example, they cannot be unfair terms, which will have no effect. Contact Consumer Affairs Victoria on 1300 55 81 81 for further information or visit unfair contract terms at the Consumer Affairs Victoria website.



Note: If you need extra space, attach a separate sheet. Both the rental provider and renter should sign and date all attachments.





22	Signatures

This agreement is made under the Residential Tenancies Act 1997.

Before signing you must read Part D – Rights and obligations in this form.



	Rental provider

Signature of  rental provider 1





Date





Signature of rental provider 2





Date







	Renter(s)

All renters listed must sign this residential rental agreement.

Signature of renter 1





Date





Signature of renter 2





Date





Signature of renter 3





Date





Signature of renter 4





Date



Note: Each renter who is a party to the agreement must sign and date here. If there are more than four renters, include details on an extra page.





Help or further information

For further information, visit the renting section – Consumer Affairs Victoria website at www.consumer.vic.gov.au/renting or call Consumer Affairs Victoria on 1300 55 81 81.

Telephone interpreter service

If you have difficulty understanding English, contact the Translating and Interpreting Service (TIS) on 131 450 (for the cost of a local call) and ask to be put through to an Information Officer at Consumer Affairs Victoria on 1300 55 81 81

Arabic

إذا كان لديك صعوبة في فهم اللغة الإنكليزية، اتصل بخدمة الترجمة التحريرية والشفوية (TIS) على الرقم 450 131 (بكلفة مكالمة محلية) واطلب أن يوصلوك بموظف معلومات في دائرة شؤون المستهلك في فكتوريا على الرقم 81 81 55 1300.



Turkish  İngilize anlamakta güçlük çekiyorsanız, 131 450’den (şehir içi konuşma ücretine) Yazılı ve Sözlü Tercümanlık Servisini (TIS) arayarak 1300 55 81 81 numerali telefondan Victoria Tüketici İşleri’ni aramalarını ve size bir Danişma Memuru ile görüştürmelerini isteyiniz.



Vietnamese  Nếu quí vị không hiểu tiếng Anh, xin liên lạc với Dịch Vụ Thông Phiên Dịch (TIS) qua số 131 450 (với giá biểu của cú gọi địa phương) và yêu cầu được nối đường dây tới một Nhân Viên Thông Tin tại Bộ Tiêu Thụ Sự Vụ Victoria (Consumer Affairs Victoria) qua số 1300 55 81 81.



Somali  Haddii aad dhibaato ku qabto fahmida Ingiriiska, La xiriir Adeega Tarjumida iyo Afcelinta (TIS) telefoonka 131 450 (qiimaha meesha aad joogto) weydiisuna in lagugu xiro Sarkaalka Macluumaadka ee Arrimaha Macmiilaha 

Fiktooriya tel: 1300 55 81 81.



Chinese  如果您聽不大懂英語，請打電話給口譯和筆譯服務處，電話：131 450（衹花費一個普通電話費），讓他們幫您接通維多利亞消費者事務處（Consumer Affairs Victoria）的信息官員，電話：1300 55 81 81。



Serbian  Ако вам је тешко да разумете енглески, назовите Службу преводилаца и тумача (Translating and Interpreting Service – TIS) на 131 450 (по цену локалног позива) и замолите их да вас повежу са Службеником за информације (Information Officer) у Викторијској Служби за потрошачка питања (Consumer Affairs Victoria) на 1300 55 81 81.



Amharic  በእንግሊዝኛ ቋንቋ ለመረዳት ችግር ካለብዎ የአስተርጓሚ አገልግሎትን (TIS) በስልክ ቁጥር 131 450 (በአካባቢ ስልክ ጥሪ ሂሳብ) በመደወል ለቪክቶሪያ ደንበኞች ጉዳይ ቢሮ በስልክ ቁጥር 1300 55 81 81 ደውሎ ከመረጃ አቅራቢ ሠራተኛ ጋር እንዲያገናኝዎት መጠየቅ።



Dari

اگر شما مشکل دانستن زبان انگلیسی دارید،  با اداره خدمات ترجمانی تحریری و شفاهی (TIS)به شماره 450 131 به قیمت مخابره محلی تماس بگیرید و بخواهید که شما را به کارمند معلومات دفتر امور مهاجرین ویکتوریا به شماره 1300 55 81 81 ارتباط دهد.



Croatian  Ako nerazumijete dovoljno engleski, nazovite Službu tumača i prevoditelja (TIS) na 131 450 (po cijeni mjesnog poziva) i zamolite da vas spoje s djelatnikom za obavijesti u Consumer Affairs Victoria na 1300 55 81 81.



Greek  Αν έχετε δυσκολίες στην κατανόηση της αγγλικής γλώσσας, επικοινωνήστε με την Υπηρεσία Μετάφρασης και Διερμηνείας (ΤΙS) στο 131 450 (με το κόστος μιας τοπικής κλήσης) και ζητήστε να σας συνδέσουν με έναν Υπάλληλο Πληροφοριών στην Υπηρεσία Προστασίας Καταναλωτών Βικτώριας (Consumer Affairs Victoria) στον αριθμό 1300 55 81 81.



Italian  Se avete difficoltà a comprendere l’inglese, contattate il servizio interpreti e traduttori, cioè il Translating and Interpreting Service (TIS) al 131 450 (per il costo di una chiamata locale), e chiedete di essee messi in comunicazione con un operatore addetto alle informazioni del dipartimento “Consumer Affairs Victoria” al numero 1300 55 81 81.

