Page 1 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Part 1 Tenancy information
Item
1
1.1 Lessor
Name/trading name
Address
Postcode
1.2 Phone 	Mobile 	ABN (optional)
Email
Note – Item 1.2 is optional.
Item
2
2.1 Tenant/s
1. Full name/s
Phone 	Email
Emergency contact full name/s
Emergency contact phone
Emergency contact email
2. Full name/s
Phone 	Email
Emergency contact full name/s
Emergency contact phone
Emergency contact email
3. Full name/s
Phone 	Email
Emergency contact full name/s
Emergency contact phone
Emergency contact email
2.2 Address for service (if different from address of the premises in item 5.1) Attach a separate list
Item 2.2 is optional. See clause 48(4).
Item
3
3.1 Lessor’s agent If applicable.
Full name/trading name
Address
Postcode
3.2 Phone 	Mobile 	ABN (optional)
Email
Note – Item 3.2 is optional.

-- 1 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 2 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
Item
4
Notices may be given to
(Indicate if the email is different from item 1, 2 or 3 above)
4.1 Lessor
Email Yes 	No
Text message 	Yes 	No 	Facsimile Yes 	No
4.2 Tenant/s
Email Yes 	No
Text message 	Yes 	No 	Facsimile Yes 	No
4.3 Agent
Email Yes 	No
Text message 	Yes 	No 	Facsimile Yes 	No
Item
5
5.1 Address of the rental premises
Postcode
5.2 Inclusions provided. For example, furniture or other household goods let with the premises. Attach list if necessary
5.3 Details of current repair orders for the rental premises or inclusions
Item
6
6.1 The term of the agreement is 	fixed term agreement 	periodic agreement
6.2 Starting on 	6.3 Ending on
See clause 4(2) 	Fixed term agreements only. For continuation of tenancy agreement, see clause 6
Item
7 Rent 	$ 	weekly 	fortnightly 	monthly 	See clause 8(1)
Item
8
Rent must be paid on the 	day of each
Insert day. See clause 8(2) 	Insert week, fortnight or month
Item
9
Methods of rent payment Insert the ways the rent must be paid. See clause 8(3)(a)
Method 1
Method 2
Details for direct credit
BSB no. 	Bank/building society/credit union
Account no. 	Account name
Payment reference

-- 2 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 3 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
Item
10
Place of rent payment Insert where the rent must be paid. Item 10 is optional. See clause 8(6) to (8)
Item
11
Day of last rent increase Insert the day the rent was last increased for the premises
Note: The lessor/lessor’s agent must not increase, or propose to increase, the rent payable by a tenant less than 12 months after the last rent
increase for the residential premises. Rent increase requirements do not apply to exempt lessors. The Act provides definitions for an exempt lessor.
Item
12 Rental bond amount 	$ 	See clause 13
Item
13
13.1 The services supplied to the premises for which the tenant must pay See clause 16
Electricity 	Yes 	No 	Any other service that a tenant must pay 	Yes 	No
Gas 	Yes 	No 	Type 	See special terms (page 12)
Phone 	Yes 	No
13.2 Is the tenant to pay for water supplied to the premises See clause 17
Yes 	No
Item
14
If the premises is not individually metered for a service under item 13.1, the apportionment of the cost of the service for which
the tenant must pay.
For example, insert the percentage of the total charge the tenant must pay. See clause 16(c)
Electricity 	Any other service stated in item 13.1
Gas See special terms (page 12)
Phone
Item
15
How services must be paid for Insert for each how the tenant must pay. See clause 16(d)
Electricity
Gas
Phone
Any other service stated in item 13.1
See special terms (page 12)
Item
16 Number of persons allowed to reside at the premises 	See clause 22
Item
17
17.1 Are there any body corporate by-laws applicable to the occupation of the premises by a tenant? 	Yes 	No
17.2 Has the tenant been given a copy of the relevant by-laws See clause 23 	Yes 	No
Item
18
18.1 Name and telephone number of the lessor’s nominated repairer for each of the following repairs
Electrical repairs 	Phone
Plumbing repairs 	Phone
Other repairs 	Phone
18.2 Are the nominated repairers the tenant’s first point of contact for notifying the need for emergency repairs? See clause 31(4)
Yes
No – please provide lessor contact details below
Name 	Phone
Item
19
The type and number of pets approved by the lessor to be kept at the premises See clauses 34 to 37
Type 	Number 	Type 	Number
For more information on what is defined as a pet and working dog visit the RTA's Renting with pets webpage.

-- 3 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 4 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
Part 2 Standard Terms
Division 1 Preliminary
1 	Interpretation
In this agreement –
(a) a reference to the premises includes a reference to any
inclusions for the premises stated in item 5.2; and
(b) a reference to a numbered section is a reference to
the section in the Residential Tenancies and Rooming
Accommodation Act 2008 (the Act) with that number; and
(c) a reference to a numbered item is a reference to the item
with that number in part 1 of this agreement; and
(d) a reference to a numbered clause is a reference to the
clause of this agreement with that number.
2 	Terms of a general tenancy agreement – ss 52
and 54–56
(1) 	This part states, under section 55, the standard terms of a
general tenancy agreement.
(2) The Act also imposes duties on, and gives entitlements to,
the lessor and tenant that are taken to be included as terms of
this agreement.
(3) The lessor and tenant may agree on other terms of this
agreement (special terms).
(4) A duty or entitlement under the Act overrides a standard term or
special term if the term is inconsistent with the duty or entitlement.
(5) A standard term overrides a special term if they are inconsistent.
(6) Any body corporate by-laws that apply to the occupation of the
premises by the tenant, for the time being in force, are taken to
be terms of this agreement.
(7) A breach of this agreement may also be an offence under the Act.
Examples for subclause (7) –
1 	It is an offence for the lessor or lessor’s agent to enter the premises
in contravention of the rules of entry under sections 192 to 199.
2 	It is an offence if the tenant does not sign and return the condition
report to the lessor or lessor’s agent under section 65.
3 	More than 1 lessor or tenant
(1) 	This clause applies if more than 1 person is named in item 1 or 2.
(2) Each lessor named in item 1 must perform all of the lessor’s
obligations under this agreement.
(3) Each tenant named in item 2 –
(a) holds their interest in the tenancy –
(i) if a special term states the tenants are joint tenants-as
a joint tenant; or
(ii) otherwise-as a tenant in common; and
(b) must perform all the tenant’s obligations under this agreement.
Division 2 Entering tenancy
4 	Start of tenancy
(1) 	The tenancy starts on the day stated in item 6.2.
(2) However, if no day is stated or if the stated day is before the
signing of this agreement, the tenancy starts when the tenant
is or was given a right to occupy the premises.
5 	Entry condition report – s 65
(1) 	The lessor or lessor’s agent must prepare, in the approved form,
and sign a condition report for the premises.
(2) A copy of the condition report must be given to the tenant on
or before the day the tenant occupies the premises under this
agreement.
(3) If the tenant does not agree with the condition report, the
tenant must mark the copy of the report in an appropriate way
to show the parts the tenant disagrees with.
(4) The tenant must sign and return the copy of the condition report
to the lessor or lessor’s agent no later than 7 days after the later
of the following days –
(a) the day the tenant occupies the premises;
(b) the day the tenant is given the copy of the condition report.
(5) After the copy of the condition report is returned to the lessor
or lessor’s agent by the tenant, the lessor or lessor’s agent must
make a copy of the condition report and return it to the tenant
within 14 days.
(6) However, the lessor or lessor’s agent does not have to prepare a
condition report for the premises if –
(a) this agreement has the effect of continuing the tenant’s right
to occupy the premises under an earlier residential tenancy
agreement; and
(b) in accordance with the Act, a condition report was prepared
for the premises for the earlier residential tenancy agreement.
(7) If a condition report is not prepared for this agreement because
subclause (6) applies, the condition report prepared for the
earlier residential tenancy agreement is taken to be the condition
report for this agreement.
6 	Continuation of fixed term agreement – s 70
(1) 	This clause applies if –
(a) this agreement is a fixed term agreement; and
(b) none of the following notices are given, or agreements
or applications made, before the day the term ends (the
end day) –
(i) a notice to leave;
(ii) a notice of intention to leave;
(iii) an abandonment termination notice;
(iv) a notice, agreement or application relating to the death
of a sole tenant under section 324A;
(v) a separate written agreement between the lessor and
tenant under section 277(a) to end this agreement.
(2) This agreement, other than a term about this agreement’s term,
continues to apply after the end day on the basis that the tenant
is holding over under a periodic agreement.
Note – For more information about certain notices, see the information
statement.
7 	Costs apply to early ending of fixed term
agreement – s 357A
(1) 	This clause applies if –
(a) this agreement is a fixed term agreement; and
(b) the tenant ends this agreement before the term ends other
than in a way permitted under the Act.
(2) The tenant must pay the reletting costs under section 357A(3).
Note – For when the tenant may end this agreement early, under the Act,
see clause 40 and the information statement.
(3) This clause does not apply if, after experiencing domestic
violence, the tenant ends the tenant’s interest in this agreement
under chapter 5, part 1, division 3, subdivision 2A of the Act.
For more information visit the Domestic violence in a rental
property webpage on the RTA website.

-- 4 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 5 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
Division 3 Rent
8 	When, how and where rent must be paid
– ss 83 – 85
(1) 	The tenant must pay the rent stated in item 7.
(2) The rent must be paid on the days stated in item 8.
(3) The rent must be paid –
(a) in a way stated in item 9; or
Note – Under section 83, at least 2 ways for the tenant to pay the rent
must be stated in this agreement.
(b) in a way agreed after the signing of this agreement by –
(i) the lessor or tenant giving the other party a notice
proposing a way; and
(ii) the other party agreeing to the proposal in writing; or
(c) if the lessor or lessor’s agent intends to change the way
rent is paid to a way that is not stated in item 9 and no way
is agreed to after the signing of this agreement – in a way
the lessor or lessor’s agent proposes by notice to the tenant
under section 84A.
(4) The lessor or lessor’s agent must give the tenant a notice
advising of the costs associated with the ways to pay rent
offered to the tenant that the tenant would not reasonably
be aware of if the lessor or lessor’s agent knows or could
reasonably be expected to find out about the costs.
(5) Also, the lessor or lessor’s agent must declare any financial
benefit the lessor or lessor’s agent may receive if the tenant uses
a particular way to pay rent.
(6) If a place is stated in item 10, the rent must be paid at the place.
(7) If, after the signing of this agreement, the lessor gives a notice
to the tenant stating a place, or a different place, for payment
of rent and the place is reasonable, the rent must be paid at the
place while the notice is in force.
(8) If no place is stated in item 10 and there is no notice stating a
place, the rent must be paid at an appropriate place.
Examples of an appropriate place –
• 	the lessor’s address for service
• 	the office of the lessor’s agent
9 	Rent in advance – s 87
The lessor or lessor’s agent may require the tenant to pay rent in
advance only if the payment is not more than –
(a) for a periodic agreement – 2 weeks rent; or
(b) for a fixed term agreement – 1 month rent.
Note – Under section 87(2), the lessor or the lessor’s agent must not
require payment of rent under this agreement in a period for which rent
has already been paid.
10 Rent increases – ss 91 and 93
(1) 	If the lessor proposes to increase the rent, the lessor must give
notice of the proposal to the tenant.
(2) The notice must state –
(a) the amount of the increased rent; and
(b) the day from when the rent is payable; and
(c) the day the rent was last increased for the premises.
(3) The day from when the increased rent is payable must not be
earlier than the later of the following –
(a) 2 months after the day the notice is given;
(b) 12 months after the last rent increase for the premises in
accordance with section 93.
(4) Subject to an order of a tribunal, the increased rent is payable
from the day stated in the notice, and this agreement is taken
to be amended accordingly.
(5) However, the increased rent is payable by the tenant only if –
(a) the rent is increased in compliance with this clause and
the Act; and
(b) the increased rent is not payable earlier than 12 months after
the last rent increase for the premises in accordance with
section 93; and
(c) the increase in rent does not relate to –
(i) compliance of the premises with the prescribed
minimum housing standards; or
(ii) keeping a pet or working dog at the premises.
(6) Also, if this agreement is a fixed term agreement, the rent may
not be increased before the term ends unless –
(a) this agreement provides for the rent increase; and
(b) this agreement states the amount of the increase or how the
amount of the increase is to be worked out; and
(c) the increase is made in compliance with the matters
mentioned in paragraph (b).
11 	Application to tribunal about rent increase – s 92
(1) 	After the lessor gives the tenant notice of a proposed rent
increase, the tenant may apply to the tribunal for an order
reducing or setting aside the amount of the proposed increase if
the tenant believes the increase –
(a) is excessive; or
(b) is not payable under clause 10.
(2) However, the application must be made –
(a) within 30 days after the tenant receives the notice; and
(b) if this agreement is a fixed term agreement – before the term
of this agreement ends.
12 Rent decreases – s 94
Under section 94, the rent may decrease in certain situations.
Note – For information about the situations, see the information
statement.
Division 4 Rental bond
13 Rental bond required – ss 111 and 116
(1) 	If a rental bond is stated in item 12, the tenant must pay to the
lessor or the lessor’s agent the bond –
(a) if a special term requires the bond to be paid at a stated
time – at the stated time; or
(b) if a special term requires the bond to be paid by instalments
– by instalments; or
(c) otherwise – when the tenant signs this agreement.
Note – There is a maximum rental bond that may be required. See
sections 112(1) and 146 and the information statement.
(2) The lessor or the lessor’s agent must, within 10 days of receiving
the rental bond or a part of the bond, pay it to the authority and
give the authority a notice, in the approved form, about the bond.
(3) The rental bond is intended to be available to financially protect
the lessor if the tenant breaches this agreement.
Example – The lessor may claim against the rental bond if the tenant
does not leave the premises in the required condition at the end of the
tenancy.
Note – For how to apply to the authority or a tribunal for the rental bond
at the end of the tenancy, see sections 125 to 141 and the information
statement.
14 Increase in rental bond – s 154
(1) 	The tenant must increase the rental bond if –
(a) the rent increases and the lessor gives notice to the tenant
to increase the bond; and
(b) the notice is given at least 11 months after –
(i) this agreement started; or
(ii) if the bond has been increased previously, following a
notice given under this clause – the day stated in the
notice, or the last notice, for making the increase.
(2) The notice must state the increased amount and the day by
which the increase must be made.
(3) For subclause (2), the day must be at least 1 month after the
notice is given to the tenant.

-- 5 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 6 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
Division 5 Outgoings
15 Outgoings – s 163
(1) 	The lessor must pay all charges, levies, premiums, rates or taxes
for the premises, other than a service charge for the premises.
Examples –
body corporate levies, council general rates, sewerage charges,
environment levies, land tax
(2) This clause does not apply if –
(a) the lessor is the State; and
(b) rent is not payable under the agreement; and
(c) the tenant is an entity receiving financial or other assistance
from the State to supply rented accommodation to persons.
16 General service charges – ss 164 and 165
The tenant must pay a service charge, other than a water
service charge, for a service supplied to the premises during the
tenancy if –
(a) the tenant enjoys or shares the benefit of the service; and
(b) the service is stated in item 13.1; and
(c) either –
(i) the premises are individually metered for the service; or
(ii) Item 14 states how the tenant’s apportionment of the cost
of the service is to be worked out; and
(d) item 15 states how the charge may be recovered by the
lessor from the tenant.
Note – Section 165(3) limits the amount the tenant must pay.
17 Water service charges – ss 164, 166 and 166A
(1) 	The tenant must pay an amount for the water consumption
charges for the premises if –
(a) the tenant is enjoying or sharing the benefit of a water
service to the premises; and
(b) the premises are individually metered for the supply of water
or water is supplied to the premises by delivery by means of
a vehicle; and
(c) Item 13.2 states that the tenant must pay for water supplied
to the premises.
(2) However, the tenant does not have to pay an amount –
(a) that is more than the amount of the water consumption
charges payable to the relevant water supplier; or
(b) that is a fixed charge for the water service to the premises.
(3) Also, the tenant does not have to pay an amount for a
reasonable quantity of water supplied to the premises for a
period if, during the period, the premises are not water efficient
for section 166.
(4) In deciding what is a reasonable quantity of water for subclause
(3), regard must be had to the matters mentioned in section
169(4)(a) to (e).
(5) The lessor must give the tenant copies of water consumption
charges documents within 4 weeks after the lessor receives the
documents.
(6) The tenant must pay the amount of the water consumption
charge to the lessor within 4 weeks after the lessor gives the
tenant copies of the water consumption charges documents
about the incurring of the amount.
(7) The tenant is not required to pay an amount for the water
consumption charges if the tenant has not received a copy of
the water consumption charges document about the amount
payable to the relevant water supplier.
(8) Subclause (9) applies if water consumption charges are payable
for a period that includes part but not all of a period specified, or
to be specified, in a water consumption charges document.
(9) The tenant may be required to pay an amount calculated for a
partial billing under section 166A using –
(a) a meter reading for the premises recorded in a condition
report; and
(b) a reasonable estimate of the volume of water supplied to the
premises during the period for which water consumption
charges are payable by the tenant; and
(c) the rate used to calculate the water consumption charge
stated in the most recent water consumption charges
document.
(10) In this clause –
water consumption charge, for premises, means the variable
part of a water service charge assessed on the volume of water
supplied to the premises.
Note – If there is a dispute about how much water (or any other service
charge) the tenant should pay, the lessor or the tenant may attempt
to resolve the dispute by conciliation.
water consumption charges document means a document,
issued to the lessor by the relevant water supplier, stating the
amount of water consumption charges for the premises that are
payable to the supplier.
Division 6 Rights and obligations
during tenancy
Subdivision 1 Occupation and use of premises
18 No legal impediments to occupation – s 181
The lessor must ensure there is no legal impediment to
occupation of the premises by the tenant as a residence for the
term of the tenancy if, when entering into this agreement, the
lessor knew about the impediment or ought reasonably to have
known about it.
Examples of possible legal impediments –
• 	if there is a mortgage over the premises, the lessor might need to
obtain approval from the mortgagee before the tenancy can start
• 	a certificate might be required under the Building Act 1975 before
the premises can lawfully be occupied
• 	the zoning of the land might prevent use of a building on the land
as a residence.
19 Vacant possession and quiet enjoyment
– ss 182 and 183
(1) 	The lessor must ensure the tenant has vacant possession of the
premises (other than a part of the premises that the tenant does
not have a right to occupy exclusively) on the day the tenant is
entitled to occupy the premises under this agreement.
Note – Parts of the premises where the tenant does not have a right to
occupy exclusively may be identified in a special term.
(2) The lessor must take reasonable steps to ensure the tenant has
quiet enjoyment of the premises.
(3) The lessor or the lessor’s agent must not interfere with the
reasonable peace, comfort or privacy of the tenant in using
the premises.
20 Lessor’s right to enter the premises – ss 192–199
The lessor or the lessor’s agent may enter the premises during
the tenancy only if the obligations under sections 192 to 199
have been complied with.

-- 6 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 7 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
21 Tenant’s use of premises – ss 10 and 184
(1) 	The tenant may use the premises –
(a) only as a place of residence; or
(b) mainly as a place of residence and for another use allowed
under a special term.
(2) The tenant must not –
(a) use the premises for an illegal purpose; or
(b) cause a nuisance by the use of the premises; or
Examples of things that may constitute a nuisance –
• 	using paints or chemicals on the premises that go onto or
cause odours on adjoining land
• 	making loud noises
• 	allowing large amounts of water to escape onto adjoining land
(c) interfere with the reasonable peace, comfort or privacy of
a neighbour of the tenant; or
(d) allow another person on the premises to interfere with the
reasonable peace, comfort or privacy of a neighbour of
the tenant.
22 Number of occupants allowed
No more than the number of persons stated in item 16 may
reside at the premises.
23 Body corporate by-laws– s 69
(1) 	The lessor must give the tenant a copy of any body corporate
by-laws applicable to –
(a) the occupation of the premises; or
(b) any common area available for use by the tenant with
the premises.
(2) The tenant must comply with the body corporate by-laws.
(3) Subclause (1) does not apply if –
(a) this agreement has the effect of continuing the tenant’s right
to occupy the premises under an earlier residential tenancy
agreement; and
(b) the lessor gave the tenant a copy of the body corporate
by-laws in relation to the earlier agreement.
Subdivision 2 Standard of premises
24 Lessor’s obligations – s 185
(1) 	At the start of the tenancy, the lessor must ensure –
(a) the premises are clean; and
(b) the premises are fit for the tenant to live in; and
(c) the premises are in good repair; and
(d) the lessor is not in breach of a law dealing with issues about
the health or safety of persons using or entering the premises;
and
(e) the premises otherwise comply with any prescribed
minimum housing standards applying to the premises.
(2) While the tenancy continues, the lessor must –
(a) maintain the premises in a way that the premises remain fit
for the tenant to live in; and
(b) maintain the premises in good repair; and
(c) ensure any law dealing with issues about the health or safety
of persons using or entering the premises is complied with;
and
(d) keep any common area included in the premises clean; and
(e) ensure the premises otherwise comply with any prescribed
minimum housing standards applying to the premises.
(3) However, the lessor is not required to comply with subclause
(1)(c) or (2)(a) for any non-standard items and the lessor is not
responsible for their maintenance if –
(a) the lessor is the State; and
(b) the non-standard items are stated in this agreement and
this agreement states the lessor is not responsible for their
maintenance; and
(c) the non-standard items are not necessary and reasonable
to make the premises a fit place in which to live; and
(d) the non-standard items are not a risk to health or safety; and
(e) for fixtures – the fixtures were not attached to the premises
by the lessor.
(4) In this clause –
non-standard items means the fixtures attached to the
premises and inclusions supplied with the premises stated in
this agreement for item 5.2.
premises include any common area available for use by the
tenant with the premises.
25 Tenant’s obligations generally – s188
(1) 	The tenant must keep the premises clean, having regard to their
condition at the start of the tenancy.
(2) The tenant must not maliciously damage, or allow someone else
to maliciously damage, the premises.
(3) The tenant’s obligations under this clause do not apply to the
extent the obligations would have the effect of requiring the
tenant to repair, or compensate the lessor for, damage to the
premises caused by an act of domestic violence experienced by
the tenant.
For more information visit the Domestic violence in a rental
property webpage on the RTA website.
Subdivision 3 The dwelling
26 Fixtures or structural changes – ss 207–209
(1) 	The tenant may attach a fixture, or make a structural change, to
the premises only if –
(a) the tenant gives the lessor a request, in the approved form,
for approval to attach the fixture or make the structural
change; and
(b) the lessor agrees to the request; and
(c) for body corporate premises-the body corporate agrees to
the request; and
(d) the fixture is attached, or structural change is made, in
accordance with the lessor’s agreement.
Note – Fixtures are generally items permanently attached to land or
to a building that are intended to become part of the land or building.
Attaching a fixture may include, for example, gluing, nailing or screwing
the fixture to a wall.
(2) The lessor must –
(a) decide the request –
(i) within 28 days after receiving the request; or
(ii) if the premises are not body corporate premises-within
a longer period, if agreed to by the tenant and lessor; and
(b) advise the tenant of the lessor’s decision; and
(c) if the lessor agrees to the request and the premises are body
corporate premises –
(i) state that the lessor’s agreement is subject to the
agreement by the body corporate; and
(ii) give the request to the body corporate within 28 days
after receiving the request; and
(iii) advise the tenant as soon as reasonably practicable of
the body corporate’s decision about the request.
(3) 	If the lessor agrees to the request, the lessor must give the
tenant an agreement that –
(a) is in writing; and
(b) describes the nature of the fixture or structural change; and
(c) states any conditions of the agreement, including any
conditions given by the body corporate.
Examples of conditions –
• 	that the tenant must maintain the fixture in a particular way
• 	that the tenant must remove the fixture and must repair damage
caused by removing the fixture
• 	that the lessor must compensate the tenant for the fixture if the
tenant can not remove it
(4) The tenant must comply with any conditions of the agreement
given by the lessor or body corporate.

-- 7 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 8 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
(5) In this clause –
body corporate premises means premises –
(a) that are part of a body corporate scheme; and
(b) for which, under a body corporate law or body corporate
by-law, the approval of the body corporate is required for the
attachment of a fixture, or the making of a structural change,
to the premises.
27 	Action by lessor for breach of lessor’s
agreement about fixture or structural change –
s 209A
(1) 	This clause applies if –
(a) the tenant attaches a fixture, or makes a structural change, to
the premises; and
(b) the lessor’s agreement is given under section 208 to attach
the fixture or make the structural change; and
(c) the tenant does not attach the fixture, or make the structural
change, in accordance with the lessor’s agreement.
(2) The lessor may –
(a) take action for a breach of a term of this agreement; or
(b) waive the breach and treat the fixture or structural change as
an improvement to the premises for the lessor’s benefit.
28 Supply of locks and keys – s 210
(1) 	The lessor must supply and maintain all locks necessary to
ensure the premises are reasonably secure.
(2) The lessor must give the tenant, or if there is more than 1 tenant,
give 1 of the tenants, a key for each lock that –
(a) secures an entry to the premises; or
(b) secures a road or other place normally used to gain access
to, or leave, the area or building in which the premises are
situated; or
(c) is part of the premises.
(3) If there is more than 1 tenant, the lessor must give the other
tenants a key for the locks mentioned in subclause (2)(a) and (b).
29 Changing locks – ss 211 and 212
(1) 	The lessor or tenant may change a lock at the premises only if –
(a) the other party to this agreement agrees to the change; or
(b) the lessor or tenant has a reasonable excuse for making the
change; or
(c) the lessor or tenant believes the change is necessary
because of an emergency; or
(d) the lock is changed to comply with an order of the tribunal.
(2) However, the tenant may also change a lock at the premises if
the tenant –
(a) believes the change is necessary to protect the tenant
or another occupant of the premises from domestic
violence; and
For more information visit the Domestic violence in a rental
property webpage on the RTA website.
(b) engages a locksmith or other qualified tradesperson to
change the lock.
(3) The lessor or tenant must not act unreasonably in failing to
agree to the change of a lock.
(4) If the lessor or tenant changes a lock, the lessor or tenant must
give the other party to this agreement a key for the changed
lock, unless –
(a) the other party agrees to not being given the key; or
(b) the tribunal orders that the key not be given to the other
party.
(5) If the tenant changes a lock under subclause (2) and gives the
lessor a key for the changed lock, the lessor must not give the
key to any other person without the tenant’s agreement or a
reasonable excuse.
(6) The right of the lessor or tenant to change a lock under this
clause is subject to a body corporate law or a body corporate
by-law that applies to the premises.
Subdivision 4 Damage and repairs
30 Meaning of emergency and routine repairs
– ss 214 and 215
(1) 	Emergency repairs are works needed to repair any of the
following –
(a) a burst water service or serious water service leak;
(b) a blocked or broken lavatory system;
(c) a serious roof leak;
(d) a gas leak;
(e) a dangerous electrical fault;
(f) flooding or serious flood damage;
(g) serious storm, fire or impact damage;
(h) a failure or breakdown of the gas, electricity or water supply
to the premises;
(i) a failure or breakdown of an essential service or appliance
on the premises for hot water, cooking or heating;
(j) a fault or damage that makes the premises unsafe or insecure;
(k) a fault or damage likely to injure a person, damage property
or unduly inconvenience a tenant of the premises;
(l) a serious fault in a staircase, lift or other common area of
the premises that unduly inconveniences a tenant in gaining
access to, or using, the premises.
(2) Also, emergency repairs are works needed for the premises
to comply with the prescribed minimum housing standards.
(3) Routine repairs are repairs other than emergency repairs.
31 Nominated repairer for emergency repairs – s 216
(1) 	The lessor’s nominated repairer for emergency repairs of a
particular type must be stated either –
(a) in item 18; or
(b) in a notice given by the lessor to the tenant.
(2) The notice must state –
(a) the name and telephone number of the nominated
repairer; and
(b) whether or not the nominated repairer is the tenant’s first point
of contact for notifying of the need for emergency repairs.
(3) The lessor must give notice to the tenant of any change of the
lessor’s nominated repairer or the telephone number of the
nominated repairer.
(4) This clause does not apply if –
(a) the lessor has given the tenant a telephone number of the
lessor; and
(b) the lessor gives notice to the tenant that the lessor is to
arrange for emergency repairs to be made to the premises.
32 Notice of damage – s 217
(1) 	If the tenant knows the premises have been damaged, the
tenant must give notice as soon as practicable of the damage.
(2) If the premises need routine repairs, the notice must be given
to the lessor.
(3) If the premises need emergency repairs, the notice must be
given to the lessor if –
(a) there is no nominated repairer for the repairs; or
(b) a nominated repairer for the repairs is not the tenant’s
first point of contact; or
(c) a nominated repairer for the repairs is the tenant’s first
point of contact but the tenant has been unable to contact
the repairer after making reasonable efforts.
(4) If the premises need emergency repairs and there is a
nominated repairer of the lessor for the repairs, the notice
must be given to the repairer if –
(a) the repairer is the tenant’s first point of contact; or
(b) the repairer is not the tenant’s first point of contact but
the tenant has been unable to contact the lessor after
making reasonable efforts.
(5) Despite clause 48, a notice under this clause does not need to
be written.

-- 8 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 9 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
(6) This clause does not apply to the tenant for damage caused by
an act of domestic violence experienced by the tenant.
For more information visit the Domestic violence in a rental
property webpage on the RTA website.
33 Emergency repairs arranged by tenant – ss 218
and 219
(1) 	The tenant may arrange for a suitably qualified person to make
emergency repairs of the premises or apply to the tribunal under
section 221 for orders about the repairs if –
(a) the tenant has been unable to notify the lessor or nominated
repairer of the need for the repairs; or
(b) the repairs are not made within a reasonable time after
notice is given.
Note – Section 219A also provides that the lessor’s agent may arrange
for emergency repairs.
(2) The maximum amount that may be incurred for emergency
repairs arranged to be made by the tenant is an amount equal
to the amount payable under this agreement for 4 weeks rent.
Note – For how the tenant may require reimbursement for the repairs,
see sections 219(2) and (3) and 220 and the information statement.
Subdivision 5 Pets
34 Keeping pets and other animals at premises –
ss 184B and 184G
(1) 	The tenant may keep a pet or other animal at the premises only
with the approval of the lessor.
(2) However, the tenant may keep a working dog at the premises
without the lessor’s approval.
(3) The tenant has the approval of the lessor to keep a pet at the
premises if keeping the pet at the premises is consistent with
item 19.
Notes –
1 	If item 19 states 2 cats, the tenant is approved by the lessor to keep
up to 2 cats at the premises.
2 	For additional approvals to keep a pet at the premises see clause 36.
(4) An authorisation to keep the pet or working dog at the premises
continues for the life of the pet or working dog and is not
affected by any of the following matters –
(a) the ending of this agreement, if the tenant continues
occupying the premises under a new agreement;
(b) a change in the lessor or lessor’s agent;
(c) for a working dog – the retirement of the dog from the
service the dog provided as a working dog.
(5) An authorisation to keep a pet, working dog or other animal at
the premises may be restricted by a body corporate by-law or
other law about keeping animals at the premises.
Examples –
1 	The premises may be subject to a local law that limits the number
or types of animals that may be kept at the premises.
2 	The premises may be subject to a body corporate by-law that
requires the tenant to obtain approval from the body corporate
before keeping a pet at the premises.
35 	Tenant responsible for pets and other animals
– s 184C
(1) 	The tenant is responsible for all nuisance caused by a pet or
other animal kept at the premises, including, for example, noise
caused by the pet or other animal.
(2) The tenant is responsible for repairing any damage to the
premises caused by the pet or other animal.
(3) Damage to the premises caused by the pet or
other animal is not fair wear and tear.
36 	Request for approval to keep pet – ss 184D
and 184E
(1) 	The tenant may, using the approved form, request the lessor’s
approval to keep a stated pet at the premises.
(2) The lessor must respond to the tenant’s request within 14 days
after receiving the request.
(3) The lessor’s response to the request must be in writing
and state –
(a) whether the lessor approves or refuses the tenant’s
request; and
(b) if the lessor approves the tenant’s request subject to
conditions – the conditions of the approval; and
Note – See clause 37 for limitations on conditions of approval
to keep a pet at the premises.
(c) if the lessor refuses the tenant’s request –
(i) the grounds for the refusal; and
(ii) the reasons the lessor believes the grounds for the
refusal apply to the request.
(4) The lessor may refuse the request for approval to keep a pet at
the premises only on 1 or more of the following grounds –
(a) keeping the pet would exceed a reasonable number of
animals being kept at the premises;
(b) the premises are unsuitable for keeping the pet because of
a lack of appropriate fencing, open space or another thing
necessary to humanely accommodate the pet;
(c) keeping the pet is likely to cause damage to the premises
that could not practicably be repaired for a cost that is less
than the amount of the rental bond for the premises;
(d) keeping the pet would pose an unacceptable risk to the
health and safety of a person, including, for example,
because the pet is venomous;
(e) keeping the pet would contravene a law;
(f) keeping the pet would contravene a body corporate by-law
applying to the premises;
(g) if the lessor proposed reasonable conditions for approval
and the conditions comply with clause 37 – the tenant has
not agreed to the conditions;
(h) the animal stated in the request is not a pet as defined in
section 184A;
(i) another ground prescribed by a regulation under section
184E(1)( j).
(5) The lessor is taken to approve the keeping of the pet at the
premises if –
(a) the lessor does not comply with subclause (2); or
(b) the lessor’s response does not comply with subclause (3).
37 Conditions for approval to keep pet at
premises – s 184F
(1) 	The lessor’s approval to keep a pet at the premises may be
subject to conditions if the conditions –
(a) relate only to keeping the pet at the premises; and
(b) are reasonable having regard to the type of pet and the
nature of the premises; and
(c) are stated in the written approval given to the tenant under
clause 36(3).
(2) Without limiting subclause (1)(b), the following conditions of the
lessor’s approval are taken to be reasonable –
(a) if the pet is not a type of pet ordinarily kept inside –
a condition requiring the pet to be kept outside at
the premises;
(b) if the pet is capable of carrying parasites that could infest
the premises – a condition requiring the premises to be
professionally fumigated at the end of the tenancy;
(c) if the pet is allowed inside the premises – a condition
requiring carpets in the premises to be professionally
cleaned at the end of the tenancy.
(3) A condition of the lessor’s approval to keep a pet at the
premises is void if the condition –
(a) would have the effect of the lessor contravening section
171 or 172; or
(b) would, as a term of this agreement, be void under
section 173; or
(c) would increase the rent or rental bond payable by the
tenant; or
(d) would require any form of security from the tenant.

-- 9 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 10 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
(4) For subclause (2), the premises are professionally fumigated,
and carpets are professionally cleaned, if the fumigation
and cleaning are done to a standard ordinarily achieved by
businesses selling those services.
Division 7 Restrictions on transfer or
subletting by tenant
38 General – ss 238 and 240
(1) 	Subject to clause 39, the tenant may transfer all or a part of the
tenant’s interest under this agreement, or sublet the premises,
only if –
(a) the lessor agrees in writing to the transfer or subletting; or
(b) the transfer or subletting is made under an order of the
tribunal.
(2) The lessor must act reasonably in failing to agree to the transfer
or subletting.
(3) The lessor is taken to act unreasonably in failing to agree to
the transfer or subletting if the lessor acts in a capricious or
retaliatory way.
(4) The lessor or the lessor’s agent must not require the tenant
to pay, or accept from the tenant, an amount for the lessor’s
agreement to a transfer or subletting by the tenant, other than
an amount for the reasonable expenses incurred by the lessor
in agreeing to the transfer or subletting.
39 State assisted lessors or employees of lessor –
s 237
(1) 	This clause applies if –
(a) the lessor is the State; or
(b) the lessor is an entity receiving assistance from the State
to supply rented accommodation; or
(c) the tenant’s right to occupy the premises is given under the
tenant’s terms of employment.
(2) The tenant may transfer the whole or part of the tenant’s interest
under this agreement, or sublet the premises, only if the lessor
agrees in writing to the transfer or subletting.
Division 8 When agreement ends
40 Ending of agreement – s 277
(1) 	This agreement ends only if –
(a) the lessor and tenant agree, in a separate written document,
to end this agreement; or
(b) the lessor gives a notice to leave premises to the tenant
under section 326 and the tenant hands over vacant
possession of the premises to the lessor on or after the
handover day stated in the notice; or
(c) the tenant gives a notice of intention to leave premises to
the lessor under section 327 and hands over vacant
possession of the premises to the lessor on or after the
handover day stated in the notice; or
(d) the tenant vacates, or is removed from, the premises after
receiving a notice from a mortgagee or appointed person
under section 317; or
(e) the tenant abandons the premises and the period for which
the tenant paid rent has ended; or
(f) the tribunal makes an order terminating this agreement.
(2) Also, this agreement ends for a sole tenant if –
(a) the tenant gives the lessor a notice ending tenancy interest
and hands over vacant possession of the premises; or
Note – See chapter 5, part 1, division 3, subdivision 2A of the
Act for the obligations of the lessor and tenant relating to a notice
ending tenancy interest.
(b) the tenant dies.
Note – See section 324A for when this agreement ends if a sole
tenant dies.
41 Condition premises must be left in – s 188
(1) 	At the end of the tenancy, the tenant must leave the premises,
as far as possible, in the same condition they were in at the
start of the tenancy, fair wear and tear excepted.
Examples of what may be fair wear and tear –
• wear that happens during normal use
• changes that happen with ageing
(2) The tenant’s obligation mentioned in subclause (1) does not
apply to the extent the obligation would have the effect of
requiring the tenant to repair, or compensate the lessor for,
damage to the premises caused by an act of domestic violence
experienced by the tenant.
For more information visit the Domestic violence in a rental
property webpage on the RTA website.
42 Keys
At the end of the tenancy, the tenant must return to the lessor all
keys for the premises.
43 Tenant’s forwarding address – s 205
(1) 	When handing over possession of the premises, the tenant
must, if the lessor or lessor’s agent asks the tenant in writing
to state the tenant’s new residential address, tell the lessor or
lessor’s agent the tenant’s new residential address.
(2) However, subclause (1) does not apply if –
(a) the tenant has a reasonable excuse for not telling the lessor or
lessor’s agent the new address; or
(b) after experiencing domestic violence, the tenant ended the
tenant’s interest in this agreement, under chapter 5, part 1,
division 3, subdivision 2A of the Act.
For more information visit the Domestic violence in a rental
property webpage on the RTA website.
44 Exit condition report – s 66
(1) 	The tenant must, on or before the day this agreement ends,
prepare and sign a condition report for the premises in the
approved form.
Note – For the approved form for the condition report, see the
information statement.
(2) As soon as practicable after this agreement ends, the tenant
must give 1 copy of the condition report to the lessor or
lessor’s agent.
Example of what might be as soon as practicable – when the tenant
returns the keys to the premises to the lessor or the lessor’s agent
(3) The lessor or the lessor’s agent must, within 3 business days
after receiving the copy of the condition report –
(a) sign the copy; and
(b) if the lessor or lessor’s agent does not agree with the report
– show the parts of the report the lessor or lessor’s agent
disagrees with by marking the copy in an appropriate way;
and
(c) if the tenant has given a forwarding address to the lessor
or lessor’s agent – make a copy of the report and return it to
the tenant at the address.
(4) The lessor or lessor’s agent must keep a copy of the condition
report signed by both parties for at least 1 year after this agreement
ends.
45 Goods or documents left behind on premises –
ss 363 and 364
(1) 	The tenant must take all of the tenant’s belongings from the
premises at the end of the tenancy.
(2) The lessor may not treat belongings left behind as the lessor’s own
property but must deal with them under sections 363 and 364.

-- 10 of 12 --

General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Page 11 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
Division 9 Miscellaneous
46 Supply of goods and services – s 171
(1) 	The lessor or the lessor’s agent must not require the tenant to
buy goods or services from the lessor, the lessor’s agent or a
person nominated by the lessor or lessor’s agent.
(2) Subclause (1) does not apply to –
(a) a requirement about a service charge; or
(b) a condition of an approval to keep a pet if the condition –
(i) requires the carpets to be cleaned, or the premises to be
fumigated, at the end of the tenancy; and
(ii) complies with clause 37; and
(iii) does not require the tenant to buy cleaning or fumigation
services from a particular person or business.
47 Lessor’s agent – s 206
(1) 	The name and address for service of the lessor’s agent is stated
in item 3.
(2) Unless a special term provides otherwise, the lessor’s agent may –
(a) stand in the lessor’s place in any application to the tribunal
by the lessor or the tenant; or
(b) do any thing else the lessor may do, or is required to do,
under this agreement.
Note – See also sections 24 and 25.
48 Notices
(1) 	A notice under this agreement must be written and, if there is
an approved form for the notice, in the approved form.
(2) A notice from the tenant to the lessor may be given to the
lessor’s agent.
(3) A notice may be given to a relevant party –
(a) by giving it to the relevant party personally; or
(b) if an address for service for the relevant party is stated in item
1, 2 or 3 – by leaving it at the address or sending it by prepaid
post as a letter to the address; or
(c) if an electronic address for a type of electronic
communication for the relevant party is stated in item 1,
2 or 3 and item 4 indicates that a notice may be given by
that type of electronic communication – by sending it by
electronic communication to the electronic address in
accordance with the Electronic Transactions (Queensland)
Act 2001.
Examples of types of electronic communication –
email, facsimile, text message
(4) If no address for service is stated in item 2 for the tenant, the
tenant’s address for service is taken to be the address of the
premises.
(5) A relevant party may change their address for service or
electronic address only by giving notice to each other relevant
party of their new address for service or a new electronic
address.
(6) On the giving of a notice of a new address for service or new
electronic address for a relevant party, the address for service or
electronic address stated in the notice is taken to be the relevant
party’s address for the relevant item in this agreement.
(7) A relevant party may withdraw their consent to notices being
given to them by electronic communication, or to a specific
electronic address, only by giving notice to each other relevant
party that notices are no longer to be given to the relevant
party electronically, or to that electronic address.
(8) Unless the contrary is proved –
(a) a notice left at an address for service is taken to have been
received by the person to whom the address relates when
the notice was left at the address; and
(b) a notice sent by post is taken to have been received by the
person to whom it was addressed when it would have been
delivered in the ordinary course of post; and
(c) a notice sent by electronic communication to an
electronic address is taken to have been received by the
recipient –
(i) if the type of electronic communication is email –
when the email enters the recipient’s email server; or
(ii) if the type of electronic communication is facsimile
– when the sender’s facsimile machine produces a
transmission report indicating all pages of the notice
have been successfully sent; or
(iii) otherwise – at the time stated in the Electronic
Transactions (Queensland) Act 2001, section 24.
(9) In this clause –
relevant party means –
(a) the lessor; or
(b) the tenant; or
(c) if there is an agent of the lessor – the lessor’s agent.

-- 11 of 12 --

Page 12 of 1 2 	v23 Sep25	Level 11, Midtown C entre, 150 Mary Street | 	GPO Box 390 Brisbane Q 4001 | t 1300 366 311 | rta.qld.gov.au
General tenancy agreement (Form 18a)
Residential Tenancies and Rooming Accommodation Act 2008
Part 3 Special terms Insert any special terms here and/or attach a separate list if required. See clause 2(3) to 2(5)
The tenant/s must receive a copy of the information statement (Form 17a) and a copy of any applicable by-laws if copies have not
previously been given to the tenant/s. Do not send to the RTA-give this form to the tenant/s, keep a copy for your records.
Other languages: You can access a free interpreter service by calling the RTA on 1300 366 311
(Monday to Friday, 8:30am to 5:00pm).
Signature of lessor/agent 	Signature of tenant 1
Name/trading name 	Print name
Signature 	Signature
Date 	Date
Signature of tenant 2 	Signature of tenant 3
Print name 	Print name
Signature 	Signature
Date 	Date

-- 12 of 12 --

